So be transformed by making your mind over.
What really is involved with this process?
But when we analyze this verse in Romans 12 verse 2,
perhaps there are four things initially that we need to remember.
First of all, to whom was Paul riding under inspiration?
Well, he was riding to Christians who were anointed,
who were faithful, and yet he used an imperative form,
saying, be transformed.
He didn't say, you were already transformed.
So that's an interesting point for us,
because when we read these words,
it's not just a matter of us remembering what happened to us in the past
when we became Christians,
but it's something that we need to focus on now.
And that's highlighted by the second point
that in the original language, the verbs used here,
indicate a continual process,
not just something that happens once,
and that's it.
And the third point, that it indicates a complete change.
Now, many of us remember that the Greek word here
involves a complete change.
Metamorphosis is the word that comes from that,
and that reminds us of a caterpillar changing into a butterfly.
Now, by this we're not inferring,
we all have to become butterflies,
but the point highlighted is a complete change
from something that is one form to another.
So in a similar way,
with regard to our personalities,
this is not just a superficial change,
as if we were changing our clothing,
but rather a deep-down change that involves our personalities.
So we change from one person to another.
Of course, this takes time,
and that's the fourth point we need to keep in mind.
It's a gradual process.
Not always is it completely just progressing in a positive sense,
sometimes for many of us,
we make some progress,
and then slip back a little,
and then we make some further progress.
But the main thing is that we're making progress.
Yes, this is not just something that you do one time,
and that's it forever.
That's highlighted by an experience
in the Watchtower back in 1977
of a brother Harry Yoshikawa from Hawaii.
He was a very large Japanese brother.
But before coming to the truth,
he was a street brawler,
and in fact the article his life experience
said from street brawler to Christian minister.
Now Harry was trained in the martial arts.
He was trained in boxing,
and he just enjoyed fighting other persons.
But after serving in the military for a while,
eventually he came in contact with the truth,
and he started to make changes.
And his life story perhaps helps us to realize
what's involved with these changes.
So of course he stopped drinking, he stopped fighting.
But Harry goes on to tell us about the first day
that he went witnessing.
He was in a market area,
holding up the awake magazine,
and he was calling out,
read the awake.
Well, all of a sudden,
some smart person said to him,
I'm wide awake,
so I don't need that trashy magazine.
Well, Harry says at that point,
his old personality returned to him.
He yelled out,
you're wide awake, huh?
Well, you won't be for long,
you'll be sleeping shortly.
So Harry took a blow at this man,
who promptly ran,
and Harry chased him for two blocks.
Now the other brother who was with Harry,
chased after him.
And fortunately, the first man was a fast runner.
And when the other brother caught up with Harry,
he said, Harry,
what would you have done if you caught the man?
And he said, I would have beat him up.
And the brother tried to reason with Harry.
Well, just imagine what a reproach
this would be on Jehovah's name.
I mean, if the police came,
and Harry said, no, I wouldn't tell him I was a witness,
I'd say, I was a Pentecostal.
Well, Harry hadn't quite made that complete change.
But later, you see in this picture,
as it appeared in the watchtower,
here's Harry working with his wife,
doing something that many Asian men
would find very hard to do,
helping her in the kitchen.
And for many years, Harry and his wife
served very faithfully in the circuit work.
And the change was so different
that many of the brothers and sisters
who heard the story about Harry,
who was called, by the way, tiny the bruiser,
didn't believe really that he was such a violent man previously.
So what do we learn from this?
That this transformation process
may involve some drastic changes in the beginning
that outwardly appeared to make someone different,
but gradually over the years,
we have to continue on making these changes,
transforming our thinking and our desires.
Now, why is that such a challenge?
Well, we know, first of all,
we have a tendency to do what's wrong
because we're sinful.
There are all sorts of wrong attitudes
and thoughts that are perhaps lying dormant
in our personalities.
It could be a matter of prejudice.
It could be a racial viewpoint hatred,
pride, greed.
And these things we could liken to weeds in a garden.
Any of us that have done gardening
realize that just because you took the weeds out one time
doesn't mean to say that's a one-time effort, does it?
They tend to grow back.
So we constantly need to be on the watch
to make sure that these weed-like tendencies
or traits that we may have don't grow back.
And of course, the other thing is,
we're surrounded by Satan and his world.
And Satan's world is always trying to influence us.
Let's take our Bibles and turn together, please,
to the book of Ephesians.
Ephesians chapter 4 and verse 18.
And notice here how it describes Satan's world.
It's the opposite to what we should be doing.
It says, they are in darkness mentally
and alienated from their life that belongs to God
because of the ignorance that is in them,
because of the insensitivity or the dulling of their hearts.
So Satan is trying to muddy the waters, we might say,
trying to get us mentally to be dull,
to not be receptive to God's Word.
So that's why we need to continue to be transformed
by making our mind over.
But how can we do that?
Well, we're not going to discuss at depth
the physical explanation with regard to neurons
and synapses this is early in the morning for that.
But we do need to understand a little bit of how the mind works.
You see, basically, we can say that when we have new thoughts
or new concepts that come into our mind,
it's as if symbolically there are little pathways
that are formed in our mind.
And the more that we think about certain things,
the more solid we might say or more permanent,
these pathways become.
So maybe we could illustrate it this way.
You see, as we're starting to learn new things,
it's as if we're going through the jungle.
And as we're cutting our way through the jungle,
at first it becomes very difficult.
Perhaps we could say it's like learning a new language.
We all know if we try to do that.
At first it becomes very, very difficult.
It's like cutting your way through a jungle path.
Or if you're trying to learn something new like driving an automobile,
it could seem very difficult.
But what do we realize?
The more often you do something,
then what happens, these symbolic pathways in our minds
become easier to walk along.
On the other hand, of course,
if we do something once,
but we don't continue to do it,
what happens?
It's as if the jungle grows back
and it becomes difficult to do things again.
So what's the point for us to get from this?
Well, in our personal study, our meditation,
and when we try to apply the things that we learn,
we shouldn't always look for new things.
You see, sometimes we might say, well,
I've read that publication already.
I don't need to reread it.
Yes, you do.
Why?
Because just because you cut a path in your mind through the jungle,
doesn't mean to say that that path is always going to remain easy to pass through.
No?
It's good for us to go back again and go over and over the same things.
And what happens?
That symbolic pathway in our minds becomes easier for us to go along
and we can truly say that we have been transformed by making our mind over.